---
layout: post
title: A Fun Little Mocktail
categories: food
---

Here's a quick post, just sharing a mocktail that I'm workshopping.[^1]

## Recipe

- 2 oz. Lapsang souchong, brewed strong (around 1/2 as much water as normal)
- 3 oz. Ginger beer (I like Fever Tree)
- 1/2 oz. Rose vinegar

Add the ingredients to a high-ball glass with ice and stir. Garnish with candied ginger if you have
it.

## Explanation

My favorite cocktail is the [Penicillin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penicillin_(cocktail)), and
while this mocktail ends up pretty far away from that starting point, it does hit some of the same
ginger-and-whiskey notes.

Lapsang souchong has become popular as a non-alcoholic replacement for Scotch for good reason---it's
smokiness really does scratch the same itch, especially in a cocktail with other interesting things
going on.

Ginger beer adds sweetness and... ginger. I could have done a more "spirit forward" mocktail with a
ginger syrup (as one would in a Pennicilin), but I think mocktails like that go by too quickly. The
ginger beer lets me make a longer drink that I don't finish in 5 minutes.

The rose vinegar is, admittedly, where things get a bit weird. I like it because it has a bit more
bite than another acid like lemon juice would, which is helpful in a mocktail. Plus, the rose
flavor adds an extra little bit of excitement. Of course, I don't expect you have rose vinegar
around (and I won't for long either, I got mine at [Noma](https://noma.dk/) and I don't think I'll
be able to get more).  I think lemon juice would be a perfectly reasonable option instead, but
personally when I finish my rose vinegar I'm going to experiment a bit with other vinegars first.
I'll update this post if I find anything interesting.

---
[^1]: I don't claim that this is particularly original, I've had drinks like it at restaurants. I'm
    just documenting my experiments making it myself.